A wheelchair often abbreviated to just chair, is a chair with wheels, used when walking is difficult or impossible due to illness, injury, or disability.
Wheelchairs come in a wide variety of formats to meet the specific needs of their users. They may include specialized seating adaptions, individualized controls, and may be specific to particular activities.

The rapid growth of industry and advancement of technology has resulted in reduction of human efforts, the main reason for which being machines!! Machines are playing an important role in our life. A machine might be anything, be it a cell phone or a bike or even a robot. Robots have found an increasing demand in a wide range of applications in our life. Their use in defense has increased by the day. For the people who are not able to control the wheelchair physically. We are trying to introduce the wheelchair that can controlled by the person’s vocal cord and via internet. The concept is that to the people who are not able to control the wheelchair they can control that with the use of their vocal cord. The concept behind the vocal cord control system is that ,the sensors which are connected to our throat will take vibrations as a signals and move the wheelchair accordingly. If the person  siting on the wheelchair cannot control it physically or with the sensors , then the wheelchair will be controlled via internet. For this technology we are developing a web application that will helps the person to travel with the wheelchair. For that purpose we will use the image processing technology that will be very useful for the controlling of the wheelchair from a remote place. This will take the advantage of high resolution camera for the proper controlling of wheelchair. This wheelchair will work as a embedded system for performing a particular task.
